# Machine Learning Nanodegree
# Deep Learning
## Project: Image Classifier

### Install

This project requires **Python 3.x** and the following Python libraries installed:

- [PyTorch](https://pytorch.org/)
- [NumPy](https://www.numpy.org/)
- [Pillow](https://pillow.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
- [matplotlib](http://matplotlib.org/)

You will also need to have software installed to run and execute an [iPython Notebook](http://ipython.org/notebook.html)


### Code

The notebook file `image_classifier_project.ipynb` contains the code and framework by which the image data is processed, neural network architecture is defined, and the classifier layers are trained.  The `flowers` diretory contains all of the training, testing, and validation image data used in all scripts.  The scripts in the cmd-line-application directory are those which are needed to run an application that trains, logs, and makes inferences from a neural network defined by a set of command line arguments. The train.py and predict.py files are the main modules the user needs to operate the application while the remaining files define functions and classes which support functionality. 

### Run

In a terminal or command window, navigate to the top-level project directory `flower-image-classifier/` (that contains this README) and run one of the following commands:

```bash
ipython notebook image_classifier_project.ipynb
```  
or
```bash
jupyter notebook image_classifier_project.ipynb
```

This will open the iPython Notebook software and project file in your browser.

To train a network using the comand-line application, execute the following command in a bash shell.

```bash
python train.py <data directory path> 
```
The network will be trained using the data in the directory path provided.  To customize the architecture, see the train.py documentation for a description of the optional arguments that can be provided to the module.

Once the network has been trained, run the following comand while providing the path to the checkpoint file generated by the train.py module for the trained network as well as a path to an image file to be used for prediction. 
```bash
python predict.py <path to image file> <path to model checkpoint file> 
```
The predict.py module also has a set of optional command-line arguments that allows one to select the processing unit on which the computations are performed and the number of most likely classes returned (see predict.py documentation).


### Data

The flower image dataset consists of 8,256 images. Each image is resized and cropped to dimensions of 224x224 which equates to 50,176 features with 102 different classes of flower. The class label for an image is equal to the lowest directory name in which the image is stored. The cat_to_name.json file contains a map that translates a class label to a flower name. 

## License

MIT &copy; Ryan Schumm